BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 1 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
Date: April 06, 2021
To: BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Study Sites
From: Silke Krueger, BIOGUARD-MI Project Manager
CC: BIOTRONIK BIOGUARD-MI Study Team
FCSEs and RCRAs
Applicable BIOTRONIK Study Field Personnel
Date of previous protocol: 12 June 2019
The BIOGUARD-MI study aims to investigate whether continuous arrhythmia monitoring and
detection, using an ICM (BioMonitor 2 or market released successor, hereafter referred to as
BioMonitor) in patients after a myocardial infarction (MI) with LVEF > 35% but with other
cardiovascular risk factors, decreases the risk of MACE if patients are appropriately examined
and treated for the observed arrhythmias. The population selected for this clinical
investigation is expected to have an increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias. It is expected that
the BioMonitor will facilitate early diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias and result in treatment of
the arrhythmias or other cardiac conditions that may present, to prevent clinical endpoints
and disease progression. This study will enroll up to 2900 subjects at up to 80 clinical study
sites worldwide. Up to 360 subjects at up to 20 study sites are planned within the United
States.
Date of protocol amendment: April 06, 2021
Description of protocol changes:
Implementation of final study termination visit:
Changes are made to implement an in-office final study termination visit for all active subjects
within 2021. After a complete medical record review for adverse events, the study personnel
will interview the subject about any adverse events that occurred during study participation.
Additionally, the interview may be supported by obtaining additional information about
adverse events from family members, primary care providers or other hospitals where care
was provided.
At the study termination visit, NYHA classification, recording of current cardiovascular
medications, and a subject interview will be performed to analyze the data regarding the
change in health status of the subjects in both groups.
Statistical changes:
The statistics section has been updated in accordance with change of the subject visit
schedule. By triggering the termination phase with this protocol amendment, the study
protocol deviates from the initial planned study concept which defined a specific number of
primary endpoints prior to study termination.
According to the original statistical planning, the study was designed as a three-stage adaptive
group sequential test procedure according to O’Brian Fleming with survival endpoint, where
the inverse normal method is used to combine the separate stage information. This strategy
is replaced with a final analysis of all data after study completion. An interim analysis has
been conducted according to the initial strategy, and the influence of this interim analysis on
the alpha-error will be considered to maintain the pre-planned global alpha error. The first
interim analysis was conducted according to the initial statistical plan. The planned second 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 2 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
interim analysis will not be done. Due to the O’Brien Fleming design with a very low αinterim1 =
0.00025 for the first interim analysis, an adjusted significance level for the final analysis: αfinal
= 0.02476 will maintain the global 1-sided significance level α= 0.025.
With the implementation of the protocol amendment dated April 06, 2021, the intended
number of endpoints may not be reached.
Update of authorship criteria:
The authorship guidelines have been updated. The scoring system for determination of
authorship has been changed and will consider four components:
è Enrollment of patients,
è Prompt classification of arrhythmias detected by the ICM,
è Unhesitating contact to the patient, and
è Conducting an in-office termination visit.
Rationale for changes:
Implementation of final study termination visit:
Based on the results of the first pre-specified interim analysis conducted in March 2020, the
DSMB expressed concerns about a potential imbalance in adverse event reporting due to the
more frequent investigator contacts of patients with an implantable cardiac monitor which
may have a direct impact on the primary study outcome. Consequently, the DSMB requested
the Steering Committee and the sponsor identify the root cause of the reporting bias and
amend the study protocol accordingly. Based on this unforeseen development the sponsor
decided to suspend subject enrollment which was communicated to sites on April 22, 2020.
Since the DSMB recommendation, the sponsor and the Steering Committee have been
working to determine reasons for this potential underreporting. During this data analysis,
there was some evidence of local differences in the number of reported adverse events
between some sites, as well as between countries.
After the events described above, monitoring efforts were intensified at study sites outside of
the U.S. which identified a number of unreported events, but failed to reduce the reporting
bias substantially. This remaining bias, along with delays between adverse event onset and
reporting, led to the conclusion that treatment group subjects may have a stronger tendency
(than control group subjects) to visit the study site for cardiac care.
In January 2021, the Steering Committee and DSMB agreed with the approach to implement
in-person termination visits for all active study participants. Conducting in-person termination
visits at the study site is intended to complement the regular phone calls used to identify all
adverse events and has been identified as being a crucial step to support an unbiased
assessment of the primary study objective. The termination visit is intended to establish
complete adverse event reporting and therefore do not extend the range of collected data,
but rather increase data completeness and quality.
Statistical changes:
The original plan assumed that 372 primary events would be required to accept the primary
alternative hypothesis with 80% statistical power given an assumed hazard ratio in the
population of 0.7452, and the study was to be terminated after this number of endpoints had
been collected. 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 3 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
As it was decided to enter the termination phase without any further delay, the intended
number of endpoints may not be reached, and the study may be underpowered for the
primary endpoint.
Steering Committee and sponsor determined that seeing all remaining subjects at a study
termination visit takes precedence over a longer study period to capture the required number
of endpoint events.
Update of authorship criteria:
The authorship criteria were updated to further define specific reactions to Home Monitoring
that will be evaluated as prompt classification of arrhythmias and consecutive contact with
subjects is critical for the study concept to be effective. In addition, conducting the in-office
termination visit for all active subjects was added as this is important for a complete adverse
event reporting.
Impact of changes:
As noted above, the decision to move into the termination phase and complete the analysis
after study completion instead of after the required number of endpoint events may result in
the study being underpowered for the primary endpoint analysis. However, the scientific
intent of the study is not altered. The in-person termination visit does not impact the subject’s
rights, safety, or welfare, there are no changes to the benefits or risks to the study
participants. The noted protocol changes also have no effect on the study devices or study
medical procedures. The IDE risk remains unchanged from previously being determined as a
significant risk study.
FDA and IRB Review Requirements:
The noted change includes an early study termination, an update of the study design, and
change to statistical analysis plan. According to the FDA guidance "Changes or Modifications
During the Conduct of a Clinical Investigation; Final Guidance for Industry and CDRH Staff",
FDA approval may be required for protocol changes impacting the subject number and study
termination as this may impact the scientific soundness of the study. Additionally, as the
primary endpoint analysis may be impacted by the early study termination, approval by FDA
is required prior to implementation of the protocol change as well as full board IRB approval.
No changes of the ICF are required.
Table 1: Summary of Protocol Changes
BIOGUARD-MI Protocol
(Version 12 JUN 2019)
BIOGUARD-MI Protocol Amendment
(Version 06 APR 2021)
Summary Study duration:
The follow-up period of the individual
subject is dependent on the time of entry
into the study. All study subjects will be
followed until the number of needed
endpoints for the final analysis is reached
or the DSMB determines a premature study
termination.
Summary Study duration:
The follow-up period of the individual
subject is dependent on the time of entry
into the study. All study subjects will be
followed until completion of the final study
termination visit or the sponsor determines
a premature study termination after
consultation with the DSMB and Steering
Committee. 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 4 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
Summary Follow-up scheme
Termination
· Final subject contact, either via office
visit or telephone contact
Summary Follow-up scheme
Final Study Termination Visit
· Final subject in-office visit at the site.
Section 4: Study Design
The second phase is currently planned to
last until approximately 2021. As study stop
will be announced once the required
number of endpoints is reached, the
individual time for subject participation
depends on time of enrollment of the
subject in the study. As U.S. subjects will
start in phase 2 of the study, the estimated
individual subject study participation
duration is between 0 and 35 months.
Section 4: Study Design
The second phase is currently planned to
last until approximately 2021. Study stop
will be announced once all active subjects
have completed their final study
termination visit or as determined by the
sponsor after consultation with the DSMB
and Steering Committee.
Section 4: Study Design
The follow-up period of the individual
subject is dependent on the time of entry
into the study. All subjects will be followed
until the number of needed endpoints for
the final analysis is reached or the DSMB
determines a premature study termination.
Section 4: Study Design
The follow-up period of the individual
subject is dependent on the time of entry
into the study. All subjects will be followed
until a final study termination visit has been
completed or the Sponsor determines a
premature study termination after
consultation with the DSMB and Steering
Committee.
No section available New section 4.2.4: Final Study Termination
Visit
All active subjects will be asked to visit the
study site for a final study termination visit.
After a complete subject medical record
review for adverse events, the study
personnel will interview the subject about
any adverse events that occurred during
study participation. Additionally, the
interview may be supported by obtaining
additional information about adverse
events from family members, primary care
providers or other hospitals where care was
provided.
Section 6.1.1: Group sequential design
The study is designed as a three-stage
adaptive group sequential test procedure
according to O’Brian Fleming with survival
endpoint, where the inverse normal method
Section 6.1.1: Statistical design
According to original statistical planning,
the study was designed as a three-stage
adaptive group sequential test procedure
according to O’Brian Fleming with survival 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 5 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
is used to combine the separate stage
information.
endpoint, where the inverse normal method
is used to combine the separate stage
information.
This strategy is replaced with a final
analysis of all data after study completion.
An interim analysis has been conducted
according to the initial strategy, and the
influence of this interim analysis on the
alpha-error will be considered to maintain
the pre-planned global alpha error.
Section 6.1.4: Statistical methods
Inferential analysis of the primary
hypothesis: The inverse normal
combination test is used to combine the
independent increment to a global test
statistic. A one-sided logrank test is
performed in the context of a confirmatory
analysis of the primary hypothesis at every
interim and the final analysis.
Section 6.1.4: Statistical methods
Inferential analysis of the primary
hypothesis: A one-sided log-rank test is
performed in the context of a confirmatory
analysis of the primary hypothesis at the
interim and the final analysis.
Section 6.2: Sample Size
It is expected that there will be pC1year = 5%
subjects with at least one MACE per year in
the control group and pBioM1year = 3.75%
subjects with at least one MACE per year in
the BioMonitor group, which results in a
Hazard Ratio = 0.7452 in favour of the
BioMonitor.
According to the approximation of
Schoenfeld 43 363 events are needed.
However, there is a slight increase of the
sample size due to the group-sequential
design of O’Brien Fleming. The interim
analyses and the final analysis should be
conducted with 124, 248, and 372 subjects
with at least one MACE during the clinical
investigation, respectively.
In total, up to 2900 subjects may be
enrolled. The subject number of up to 2900
is based on an expected endpoint-rate of
5%/3.75% per subject year required to
reach the study goal of 372 endpoint
events. The subject number will be
automatically adjusted in the event the
endpoint rate deviates from the expected
rate. All subjects will be followed until the
end of the clinical investigation. The study
Section 6.2: Sample Size
The original plan assumed that 372 primary
events would be required to accept the
primary alternative hypothesis with 80%
statistical power given an assumed hazard
ratio in the population of 0.7452, and the
study was to be terminated after this
number of endpoints had been collected.
With the implementation of the protocol
amendment dated April 06, 2021, the
intended number of endpoints may not be
reached.
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 6 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
duration will be approximately 3 years, but
ultimately study closure is dependent on
when the number of needed endpoints for
the final analysis is reached.
This accounts also for loss of information
due to drop-outs which remain in the
analysis set. According to the adaptive
group-sequential design, the sample size
can also be adjusted after the first or
second interim analysis based on the
recommendations of the DSMB. However,
the sponsor must confirm any sample size
increase and has the right to refuse it.
There is no adjustment of the significance
value for stopping for futility.
Section 6.3: Level of significance and the
power of the study
The global significance level is of the 1-
sided hypothesis is 2.5%. The significance
level of the interim analyses and final
analysis is given by the O’Brien Fleming
method: ainterim1 = 0.00025, ainterim2 =
0.007, and afinal = 0.0225.
Section 6.3: Level of significance and the
power of the study
The global significance level of the 1-sided
hypothesis is 2.5%. The first interim
analysis has been performed. The planned
second interim analysis will not be done.
Due to the O’Brien Fleming design with a
very low ainterim1 = 0.00025 for the first
interim analysis, an adjusted significance
level for the final analysis: afinal = 0.02476
will maintain the global 1-sided significance
level α= 0.025.
Section 6.7: Provision for an interim
analysis
There are two interim analyses based on
1/3 and 2/3 of the total number of subjects
with at least one MACE.
Section 6.7: Provision for an interim
analysis
One interim analysis has been completed.
No further interim analysis will be
performed.
Section 6.8: Termination criteria
The sponsor may decide to discontinue the
study due to organizational reasons based
on the observed event rates and the
general feasibility of the study. Based on
the recommendations of the DSMB for the
study after the first and second interim
analysis, the study will be stopped for
futility when there is a low chance for
rejection of the Alternative hypothesis at
the final analysis or the need for an increase
of the sample size, which is refused by the
sponsor.
Section 6.8: Termination criteria
The sponsor may decide to discontinue the
study due to organizational reasons based
on the observed event rates and the
general feasibility of the study. Based on
the recommendations of the DSMB for the
study after the first interim analysis, the
study will be stopped for futility when there
is a low chance for rejection of the
Alternative hypothesis at the final analysis
or the need for an increase of the sample
size, which is refused by the sponsor.
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 7 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
Stopping for superiority is achieved in case
the 1-sided p-value at the interim analyses
is below the O’Brien Fleming significance
values ainterim1 = 0.00025 and ainterim2 =
0.007, respectively.
Stopping for superiority is achieved in case
the 1-sided p-value at the interim analyses
is below the O’Brien Fleming significance
value ainterim1 = 0.00025.
Section 6.11: Procedure for accounting of
all data for analysis
Data exports from the Clinical Data
Management System and the BIOTRONIK
Clinical Data Warehouse with Home
Monitoring data will be analyzed with
common statistical software packages, e.g.
SAS Version 9.3 or IBM SPSS Version 21 for
Windows or higher.
Section 6.11: Procedure for accounting of
all data for analysis
Data exports from the Clinical Data
Management System and the BIOTRONIK
Clinical Data Warehouse with Home
Monitoring data will be analyzed with
common statistical software packages, e.g.
SAS Version 9.4.
Section 7.1: Subject Population
Every investigator can enroll as many
subjects as desired until the sample size for
the entire study has been reached.
Section 7.1: Subject Population
By decision of the Steering Committee and
the sponsor, enrollment was suspended on
April 22, 2020.
Section 7.2: Electronic CRFs and Forms Section 7.2: Electronic CRFs and Forms
Added eCRF to listing after Discharge eCRF:
· Termination visit eCRF
Section 7.2, Table 1: Overview eCRFs and
Procedures
Section 7.2, Table 1: Overview eCRFs and
Procedures
Added required data collection in table for
Termination: NYHA, Cardiovascular
medication, Subject interview
Section 8: Study Procedures
Subjects who have successfully been
enrolled in the study will be evaluated at
discharge, phone calls every 6 months and
a termination visit.
Section 8: Study Procedures
Subjects who have successfully been
enrolled and are still active in the study will
be evaluated at discharge, phone calls
every 6 months, and a final study
termination visit.
Section 8.8: Study Termination Section 8.8: Study Termination
Added new paragraph after current first
paragraph:
All active subjects will be asked to visit the
study site for a final study termination visit.
After a complete subject medical record
review for adverse events, the study
personnel will interview the subject about
any adverse events that occurred during 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 8 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
study participation. Additionally, the
interview may be supported by obtaining
additional information about adverse
events from other sources, in accordance
with local regulations, e.g. from family
members, primary care providers or other
hospitals where care was provided.
Section 9.2: Point of enrollment and study
termination
Regular point of termination for all subjects
is the date when the formal study
termination is announced.
Section 9.2: Point of enrollment and study
termination
Regular point of termination for the
individual subject is the respective date of
the final study termination visit.
Section 14.2: Reporting Deviations
All deviations will be reported in the interim
and final clinical investigation reports.
BIOTRONIK, Inc. categorizes protocol noncompliance instances as either protocol
violations or protocol deviations. Both
protocol violations and deviations will be
reported in the interim and final clinical progress
reports.
Section 14.2: Reporting Deviations
All deviations will be reported in the annual
and final clinical investigation reports.
BIOTRONIK, Inc. categorizes protocol noncompliance instances as either protocol
violations or protocol deviations. Both
protocol violations and deviations will be
reported in the annual and final clinical
progress reports.
Section 17.2.4: Justification and rules for
the assessment of “acquisition of data”
A scoring system will consider two
components: enrollment of subjects and
the complete documentation of the reaction
to HM containing the classification of an
arrhythmia detected by the ICM, the
resulting subject contact and, if a change in
therapy is indicated, also the
documentation of the therapy changes.
Enrollment: The importance of subject
enrollment for the success of the study is
obvious. All subjects are counted if they are
randomized and included in the analysis
population.
Reaction to HM: The thoroughly
conducted diagnostic work-up and
consequent treatment, if required, after
ICM detected arrhythmias is the
mechanism by which the study attempts to
improve the outcome in the treatment arm.
Since the study does not enforce therapy,
documented cases of arrhythmia and
subject contact will be acknowledged
Section 17.2.4: Justification and rules for
the assessment of “acquisition of data”
A scoring system will consider four
components:
è Enrollment of patients,
è Prompt classification of
arrhythmias detected by the ICM
è Unhesitating contact to the
patient
è Conducting an in-office final study
termination visit.
Justification:
The importance of enrollments for the
study’s success is evident. Without prompt
classification of arrhythmias and
consecutive contact with patients, the study
concept cannot be effective. The conduction
of in-office final study termination visits is 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 9 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
independent of the question whether it
resulted in a therapy or not.
Besides the assumed influence on the
primary study outcome, the complete
documentation of event chains is an
important secondary objective of the study.
To be counted, the following requirements
must be fulfilled:
- An arrhythmia reported by the CEMB
was classified by the investigator
- The subject was contacted, if
applicable
- If a diagnostic work-up was
considered necessary, the
diagnostic results and therapy
changes are reported
- The overall delay from CEMB report
to classification by the investigator
did not exceed 7 days
- The information was recorded in the
corresponding eCRFs and no open
queries remain at study termination.
To calculate the value of reaction to HM
cases, the following rules apply: The time
from CEMB notification to subject contact
must not exceed 7 days. Within this period,
the investigator must have studied the HM
content and classified the subject’s rhythm,
and must have contacted the subject, if
applicable.
If this timeline is met, the full value is
granted for the case.
important for a complete adverse event
reporting.
All four elements can be objectively
calculated from the study database and
together, they provide an objective
quantification of the contribution of a study
site.
Section 17.2.5: Calculation of total score
For all randomized subjects together, 1000
points are granted. For each randomized
subject, the number of granted points to
the study site is 1000 divided by the
number of randomized subjects.
For all Reaction to HM cases fulfilling the
defined conditions together, 1000 points
are granted. For each case, the value
granted to the study site is 1000 divided by
the total number of cases. These points
Section 17.2.5: Calculation of total score
For each of the four elements, 1000 points
are granted.
è For each randomized subject, the
number of granted points to the
investigational site is 1000 divided
by the number of randomized
subjects. 
BIOGUARD-MI Clinical Studies
Protocol Modification Notification
Date 06-APR-2021 Page 10 of 10 T206B-r2 02/20
may be reduced if the delays occurred, as
defined above.
The points are added for all study sites. If,
for example 3000 subjects will be enrolled
and 5000 cases of arrhythmia and contact
are documented, all sites will receive 0.33
points per enrolled subject, and 0.2 points
per timely documented event chain.
The sites will then be ranked by the number
of points.
è Further 1000 points are distributed
evenly over all classified
arrhythmias, which have been
completed within 5 working days
after onset of the arrhythmia.
è Equally, further 1000 points are
distributed evenly over all contacts
to subjects after arrhythmias, which
were done within 7 working days of
the arrhythmia.
è For each subject seen in-office for
the final study termination visit, the
number of points is 1000 divided by
the total number of subjects seen inoffice for the final study termination
visit.
The sites will then be ranked by the sum of
points from the four categories.
For all publications after the primary
publication, investigators who have not
been authors of accepted publications will
be considered preferentially. The number of
authors of a study site on all publications
(weighted by the journals’ latest impact
factors) shall be proportional to the data
contribution measured by the score, which
is described here.
BIOTRONIK contact information for questions
Silke Krüger, Project Manager, 503-451-8053, silke.krueger@biotronik.com
Lulu Yang, Clinical Research Associate, 503-451-8073, lulu.yang@biotronik.com 